[Docs] Worker pool docs. (#6665)
skypilot-org/skypilot: docs/source/examples/managed-jobs.rst

  "sky-managed-2022-10-06-05-17-09-750781_pipeline_eval_8-1".

.. _pool:

> Using pool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using pools
```

  (simple-workload, pid=4150) +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
  (simple-workload, pid=4150) | Processes:                                                                              |
  (simple-workload, pid=4150) |  GPU   GI   CI              PID   Type   Process name                        GPU Memory |
  (simple-workload, pid=4150) |        ID   ID                                                               Usage      |
  (simple-workload, pid=4150) |=========================================================================================|
  (simple-workload, pid=4150) |  No running processes found                                                             |
  (simple-workload, pid=4150) +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
  ✓ Job finished (status: SUCCEEDED).
  ✓ Managed job finished: 2 (status: SUCCEEDED).

The job will be launched on one of the available workers in the pool.  
Currently, each worker is **exclusively occupied** by a single managed job at a time.  
Support for running multiple jobs concurrently on the same worker will be added in the future.

> Pools support a :code:`--num-jobs` flag to conveniently submit multiple jobs at once.  

Reviewer: Add header: `Submit multiple jobs at once`

Clicking on the pool name will show detailed information about the pool, including its resource specification, status of each worker node, and any job currently running on it:

.. image:: ../images/pool-details.png
  :width: 100%
  :align: center

In this example, one worker is ready in Nebius, and another is currently provisioning.  
The ready worker is running the managed job with ID 10.
The **Worker Details** section displays the current resource summary of the pool, while the **Jobs** section shows a live snapshot of all jobs associated with this pool, including their statuses and job IDs.

.. tip::

  You can use :code:`sky jobs cancel --pool gpu-pool` to cancel all jobs currently running or pending on the pool.

Update a pool
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can update the pool configuration with the following command:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :emphasize-lines: 3

  # new-pool.yaml
  pool:
    workers: 10

  resources:
    accelerators: {H100:1, H200:1}

  setup: |
    # Setup commands for all workers
    echo "Setup complete!"

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky jobs pool apply --pool gpu-pool new-pool.yaml

> The :code:`sky jobs pool apply` command can be used to update the configuration of an existing pool with the same name.  

Reviewer: We should make it clear that setup, resources, etc can all be updated

  "sky-managed-2022-10-06-05-17-09-750781_pipeline_eval_8-1".

.. _pool:

Using pools
-----------

> SkyPilot supports spawning a **pool** for launching many jobs that share the same environment — for example, batch inference or large-scale data processing.  

Reviewer 2: Can we break the long para into several paras, or bullet points?

The pool consists of multiple individual **workers**, each of which is a SkyPilot cluster instance with identical configuration and setup.  
All workers in the pool are provisioned with the same environment, ensuring consistency across jobs and reducing launch overhead.
Workers in the pool are **reused** across job submissions, avoiding repeated setup and **saving cold start time**. This is ideal for workloads where many jobs need to run with the same software environment and dependencies.

.. tip::

  To get started with pools, use the nightly build of SkyPilot: ``pip install -U skypilot-nightly``

Create a pool
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here is a simple example of creating a pool:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :emphasize-lines: 2-4

  # pool.yaml
  pool:
    # Specify the number of workers in the pool.
    workers: 3

  resources:

>     # Specify the resources for each worker, e.g.

Reviewer 2: complete the example description?

Reviewer: The `accelerators` line is the example

    accelerators: {H100:1, H200:1}

  file_mounts:
    /my-data:
      source: s3://my-dataset/
      mode: MOUNT

  setup: |
    # Setup commands for all workers
    echo "Setup complete!"

Notice that the :code:`pool` section is the only difference from a normal SkyPilot YAML.  
To specify the number of workers in the pool, use the :code:`workers` field under :code:`pool`.  

> When creating a pool, the :code:`run` section is ignored.

Reviewer 2: Let's skip this sentence? We may want to change the behavior to erring out.

> To create a pool, use the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a pool, use `sky jobs pool apply`:
```

.. code-block:: console

>   $ sky jobs pool apply --pool gpu-pool pool.yaml

Reviewer 2: Here and L526+, can we use the shorthand (-p)? Users are likely to pick up whatever the docs recommend.

  INFRA                 INSTANCE                         vCPUs   Mem(GB)   GPUS     COST ($)   CHOSEN   
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Nebius (eu-north1)    gpu-h100-sxm_1gpu-16vcpu-200gb   16      200       H100:1   2.95          ✔     
  Nebius (eu-north1)    gpu-h200-sxm_1gpu-16vcpu-200gb   16      200       H200:1   3.50                
  GCP (us-central1-a)   a3-highgpu-1g                    26      234       H100:1   5.38                
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Applying config to pool 'gpu-pool'. Proceed? [Y/n]: 
  Launching controller for 'gpu-pool'...
  ...
  ⚙︎ Job submitted, ID: 1

  Pool name: gpu-pool
  📋 Useful Commands
  ├── To submit jobs to the pool: sky jobs launch --pool gpu-pool <yaml_file>
  ├── To submit multiple jobs:    sky jobs launch --pool gpu-pool --num-jobs 10 <yaml_file>
  ├── To check the pool status:   sky jobs pool status gpu-pool
  └── To terminate the pool:      sky jobs pool down gpu-pool

  ✓ Successfully created pool 'gpu-pool'.

> The pool will be created in the background. You can submit jobs to this pool immediately; jobs will remain in the PENDING state until the worker cluster is ready, and will start automatically once workers are available.

Reviewer 2: "jobs will remain in the PENDING state until the worker cluster is ready, and will start automatically once workers are available." a bit confusing. Is there a diff between ready and available?

Reviewer: ```
The pool will be created in the background. You can submit jobs to this pool immediately. If there aren't any workers ready to run the jobs yet, the jobs will wait in the PENDING state.
The jobs will start automatically once workers are provisioned and ready to run.
```
Seem ok?

Reviewer 2: "Jobs will start automatically once some worker is provisioned and ready to run." To be clearer than we just need some worker, not all.

Submit jobs to a pool
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To submit jobs to the pool, create a workload YAML file:

.. code-block:: yaml

>   # workload.yaml

Reviewer 2: s/workload/job?

  name: simple-workload

  # Specify the resources requirements for the job.
  # This should be the same as the resources configuration in the pool YAML.
  resources:
    accelerators: {H100:1, H200:1}

  run: |
    nvidia-smi

> 

Reviewer 2: "This says that the job (1) needs the specified resources to run, and (2) runs the specified command."

and see how this flows with "Notice that ..."

> Notice that the :code:`resources` specified in the job YAML should match those used in the pool YAML. Then, use the following command to submit jobs to the pool:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice that the :code:`resources` specified in the job YAML should match those used in the pool YAML. Then, use ``sky jobs launch -p <pool-name>` to submit jobs to the pool:
```

  (simple-workload, pid=4150) +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
  (simple-workload, pid=4150) | Processes:                                                                              |
  (simple-workload, pid=4150) |  GPU   GI   CI              PID   Type   Process name                        GPU Memory |
  (simple-workload, pid=4150) |        ID   ID                                                               Usage      |
  (simple-workload, pid=4150) |=========================================================================================|
  (simple-workload, pid=4150) |  No running processes found                                                             |
  (simple-workload, pid=4150) +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
  ✓ Job finished (status: SUCCEEDED).
  ✓ Managed job finished: 2 (status: SUCCEEDED).

The job will be launched on one of the available workers in the pool.  
Currently, each worker is **exclusively occupied** by a single managed job at a time.  

> Support for running multiple jobs concurrently on the same worker will be added in the future.

Reviewer 2: These two lines in a :note box?

  # batch-workload.yaml
  name: batch-workload

  resources:
    accelerators: {H100:1, H200:1}

  run: |
    echo "Job rank: $SKYPILOT_JOB_RANK"
    echo "Processing prompts from $(($SKYPILOT_JOB_RANK * 100)) to $((($SKYPILOT_JOB_RANK + 1) * 100))"
    # Actual business logic here...
    echo "Job $SKYPILOT_JOB_RANK finished"

Use the following command to submit them to the pool:

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky jobs launch --pool gpu-pool --num-jobs 10 batch-workload.yaml
  YAML to run: batch-workload.yaml
  Submitting to pool 'gpu-pool' with 10 jobs.
  Managed job 'batch-workload' will be launched on (estimated):
  Use resources from pool 'gpu-pool': 1x[H200:1, H100:1].
  Launching 10 managed jobs 'batch-workload'. Proceed? [Y/n]: Y
  Launching managed job 'batch-workload' (rank: 0) from jobs controller...
  ...
  Launching managed job 'batch-workload' (rank: 9) from jobs controller...
  Jobs submitted with IDs: 3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12.
  📋 Useful Commands
  ├── To stream job logs:                 sky jobs logs <job-id>
  ├── To stream controller logs:          sky jobs logs --controller <job-id>
  └── To cancel all jobs on the pool:     sky jobs cancel --pool gpu-pool

> All of the jobs will be launched in parallel.  
> Note that the maximum concurrency is limited by the number of workers in the pool.  
> To enable more jobs to run simultaneously, increase the number of workers when creating the pool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All jobs will be launched in parallel.  
Note that the maximum concurrency is limited by the number of workers in the pool.  
To enable more jobs to run simultaneously, increase the number of workers when creating the pool.
```

By "All jobs will be launched in parallel.  " do we want to say they will go into PENDING in parallel?

Reviewer: maybe we just delete the first line?

There are several things to note when submitting to a pool:

- Any :code:`setup` commands or file mounts in the YAML are ignored.
- The :code:`resources` requirements are still respected. This should be the same as the ones used in the pool YAML.
- The :code:`run` command is executed for the job.

> Monitoring job status

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Monitor job statuses
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can use the job page in the dashboard to monitor the job status.

.. image:: ../images/pool-dashboard.png
  :width: 100%
  :align: center

> In this example, we submit 10 jobs with IDs from 3 to 12.  

Reviewer 2: wdym "only number of workers jobs can run at a time"?

Author: ```
Since each job requires **the entire worker cluster**, only as many jobs as there are workers can run concurrently; additional jobs will remain in the **PENDING** state until a worker becomes available. In this case, 1 job can run at a time.
```

  file_mounts:
    /my-data-2:
      source: s3://my-dataset-2/
      mode: MOUNT

  setup: |
    # Setup commands for all workers
    echo "Setup complete!"

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky jobs pool apply --pool gpu-pool new-pool.yaml

The :code:`sky jobs pool apply` command can be used to update the configuration of an existing pool with the same name.  
In this example, it updates the number of workers in the pool to 10.  
If no such pool exists, it will create a new one; this is equivalent to the behavior demonstrated in the previous example.

Pools will automatically detect changes in the worker configuration. If only the pool configuration (e.g. number of workers) is changed, the pool will be updated in place to reuse the previous workers; otherwise, if the setup, file mounts, workdir, or resources configuration is changed, new worker clusters will be created and the old ones will be terminated gradually.

.. note::

  If there is a :code:`workdir` or :code:`file_mounts` field in the worker configuration, workers will always be recreated when the pool is updated. This is to respect any data changes in them.

Terminate a pool
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> After usage, the pool can be terminated with the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After usage, the pool can be terminated with ``sky jobs pool down``:
```

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky jobs pool down gpu-pool
  Terminating pool(s) 'gpu-pool'. Proceed? [Y/n]: 
  Pool 'gpu-pool' is scheduled to be terminated.

The pool will be torn down in the background, and any remaining resources will be automatically cleaned up.

.. tip::

>   Autoscaling will be supported in the future, allowing the pool to automatically scale down to 0 workers when no jobs are running, and scale up to the desired concurrency level when new jobs are submitted.

Reviewer 2: We can expand this into a **Coming soon** checklist. Include also 8-GPU workers running multiple jobs requesting 1 GPU each.
